---
layout: post
title: "Construct R from Q"
author: Guanlin Li
tag: blog
---

Announcement: This is reading notes excerpted from Walter Rudin's **Principles of Mathematical Analysis**, from Chapter one, with special attention on how to construct $$\mathbb{R}$$ from $$\mathbb{Q}$$. This question arised with a theorem's proof in the book **Probability Essentials** presented as below. 

> **Theorem 2.1.**
> The Borel  $$\sigma$$-algebra of  $$\mathbb{R}$$ is generated by intervals of the form $$(-\infty, a]$$, where $$a \in \mathbb{Q}$$ ($$\mathbb{Q}$$ = rationals).

#### 1. The proof of $$\sqrt{2}$$ is not a rational number

So first of all, what is a rational number. From <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rational_number">wikipedia</a>, a rational number is any number that could be represented as the quotient or fraction of two integers, $$\frac{p}{q}$$. Although, as a causalist, this leads me to question 'What is an integer?', we here not care about its mathematical rigor and assume the axiomatic result. 

So to prove $$\sqrt{2}$$ is not a rational number, means to prove that $$\sqrt{2}$$ can not be expressed as the form $$\frac{p}{q}$$. We use proof by contradiction here: 

> **Proof.** 
>
> Suppose $$\sqrt{2}$$ can be expressed as $$\frac{p}{q}$$. More formally, the assumption can be written as: $$\exists p, q \in \mathbb{Z}, \sqrt{2} = \frac{p}{q}$$. Then, $$\sqrt{2} q = p \Rightarrow 2q^2 = p^2$$. So there exits p, q such that $$2p^2 = q^2$$ holds. When problem reduces to equation of integers, the use of parity is always turned to. If q is odd, so does $$q^2$$, the equality will not hold, since the left-hand side of the equal should be even. So q is even. Let $$p = 2^{i}k$$, $$q=2^{j}l$$, where $$k, l$$ are odd and $$j > 0$$. According to the equality, we have: $$2 * 2^{2i}k^2 = 2^{2j}l^2$$. That is: $$2^{2i+1-2j}k^2 = l^2$$. It is impossible, since $$k, l$$ are odd, and $$2i+1-2j \ne 0$$. So the assumption is not true. $$\square$$

#### 2. Ordered Set, (Least) Upper Bound, (Greatest) Lower Bound

> **Def. Order.** an order is a relation $$R=\{<,=,>\}$$ over a set, such that only three specific relationships hold between any x and y in the set and each of them is transitive, denoted as $$xRy$$.

So an Ordered Set $$S$$ is a set where an order is defined. Since $$S$$ is an ordered set, we could define bounds for its subset $$E \subset S$$. If there exists $$\beta \in S$$ such that $$x \le \beta$$ for every $$x \in E$$, we say that $$E$$ is bounded above and $$\beta$$ is an **Upper Bound** of $$E$$. Lower can be defined similarly.

Moreover, if for any $$\gamma < \beta$$ and $$\gamma \in S$$, $$\gamma$$ is not an upper bound of $$E$$, then $$\beta$$ is the **Least Upper Bound** of set $$E$$, which is denoted as $$\beta$$ = sup$$E$$. Greatest lower bound can be defined in the similar way, and is denoted by $$\beta$$ = inf$$E$$

An ordered set $$S$$ is said to have **least-upper-bound property** if for any subset $$E \in S$$ and $$E \ne \phi$$, if $$E$$ is bounded above, then $$E$$ has its least upper bound $$\beta$$ = sup$$E \in S$$. Then we could have a theorem that connects the relationship between least upper bound and greatest lower bound.

> **Theorem.**
>
> Suppose $$S$$ is a set that has least-upper-bound property. If $$E \in S$$ is bounded below and we denote all possible lower bounds of $$E$$ as a set $$L$$. According to the least-upper-bound property of $$S$$, suppose the least uppper bound of $$L$$ is $$\alpha$$ = sup$$L$$. Then we have: $$\alpha$$ = inf$$E$$.

#### 3. Field and Ordered Field

> **Def. Field.** A field is a set $$F$$ with two operations, i.e. addition, multiplication, which satisfies the following field axioms: 
>
> - (A) Axioms for addition
>
>   - (A1) If $$x, y \in F$$, then their sum $$x + y \in F$$.
>   - (A2) Addition is commutative, i.e. $$x + y = y + x$$.
>   - (A3) Addition is associative, i.e. $$x + (y + z) = (x + y) + z$$.
>   - (A4) $$F$$ contains an element 0 such that $$0 + x = x$$ for every $$x \in F$$.
>   - (A5) To every $$x \in F$$ corresponds an element  $$-x \in F$$ such that $$x + -x = 0$$.
>
> - (M) Axioms for multiplication
>
>   - (M1) If $$x, y \in F$$, then their sum $$x y \in F$$.
>   - (M2) Addition is commutative, i.e. $$x y = y  x$$.
>   - (M3) Addition is associative, i.e. $$x  (y  z) = (x  y)  z$$.
>   - (M4) $$F$$ contains an element 1 such that $$1  x = x$$ for every $$x \in F$$.
>   - (M5) To every $$x \in F$$ corresponds an element  $$1/x \in F$$ such that $$x  (1/x) = 1$$.
>
> - (D) Distributive Law  
>
>   - $$x(y + z) = xy + xz$$ holds for all $$x, y, z \in F$$.

